You guys hit a billion in revenue in
less than four years with around 60 to
70 people. You were completely
bootstrapped. Haven't raised any VC
money. I don't believe anyone has ever
done this before. We basically never
wanted to play the Silicon Valley game.
I always thought it was ridiculous. I
used to work at a bunch of big tech
companies and I always felt that we
could fire 90% of people and we would
move faster because the best people
wouldn't have all these distractions. So
when we started Surge, we wanted to
build it completely differently with a
super small, super elite team. You guys
are by far the most successful data
company out there.
>> We essentially teach AI models what's
good and what's bad. People don't
understand what quality even means in
the space. They think you can just throw
bodies at a problem and get good data.
That's completely wrong.
>> To a regular person, it doesn't feel
like these models are getting that much
smarter constantly.
>> Over the past year, I've realized that
the values that the companies have will
shape the models. I was asking Claude to
help me draft an email the other day and
after 30 minutes, yeah, I think it
really crafted me the perfect email and
I sent it. Then I realized I spent 30
minutes doing something that didn't
matter at all. If you could choose the
perfect model behavior, which model
would you want? Do you want a model that
says, "You're absolutely right. There
are definitely 20 more ways to improve
this email and it continues for 50 more
iterations." Or do you want a model
that's optimizing for your time and
productivity and just says, "No, you
need to stop. Your email is great. Just
send it and move on."
>> You have this hot take that a lot of
these labs are pushing AGI in the wrong
direction. I'm worried that instead of
building AI that will actually advance
us as a species, curing cancer, solving
poverty, understanding universe, we are
optimizing for AI slop instead.
Literally optimizing our models for the
types of people who buy tabloids at the
grocery store. We're basically teaching
our models to chase dopamine instead of
truth.
Today, my guest is Edwin Chen, founder
and CEO of Surge AI. Edwin is an
extraordinary CEO and Surge is an
extraordinary company. They're the
leading AI data company powering
training at every Frontier AI lab.
They're also the fastest company to ever
hit $1 billion in revenue in just 4
years after launch with fewer than 100
people and also completely bootstrapped.
They've never raised a dollar in VC
money. They've also been profitable from
day one. As you'll hear in this
conversation, Edwin has a very different
take on how to build an important
company and how to build AI that is
truly good and useful to humanity. I
absolutely love this conversation and I
learned a ton. I am really excited for
you to hear it. If you enjoy this
podcast, don't forget to subscribe and
follow it in your favorite podcasting
app or YouTube. It helps tremendously.
And if you become an annual subscriber
of my newsletter, you get a ton of
incredible products for free for an
entire year, including Devon, Lovable,
Replet, Bolt, NAM, Linear, Superhum,
Dcript, Whisper Flow, Gamma, Perplexity,
Warp, Granola, Magic Patterns, Ray,
Catch, Shepardd, Mobin, Post Hog, and
Stripe Atlas. Head on over to
Lenny's.com and click product pass. With
that, I bring you Edwin Chen after a
short word from our sponsors. My podcast
guests and I love talking about craft
and taste and agency and product market
fit. You know what we don't love talking
about? Sock 2. That's where Vanta comes
in. Vanta helps companies of all sizes
get compliant fast and stay that way
with industryleading AI automation and
continuous monitoring. Whether you're a
startup tackling your first Sock 2 or
ISO 2701 or an enterprise managing
vendor risk, Vanta's trust management
platform makes it quicker, easier, and
more scalable. Vanta also helps you
complete security questionnaires up to
five times faster so that you can win
bigger deals sooner. The result,
according to a recent IDC study, Vant
customers slashed over $500,000
a year and are three times more
productive. Establishing trust isn't
optional. Vanta makes it automatic. Get
$1,000 off at vanta.com/lenny.
Here's a puzzle for you. What do OpenAI,
Cursor, Perplexity, Verscell, Platt, and
hundreds of other winning companies have
in common? The answer is they're all
powered by today's sponsor, WorkOS. If
you're building software for
enterprises, you've probably felt the
pain of integrating single signon, skim,
arbback, audit logs, and other features
required by big customers. Work OS turns
those deal blockers into drop-in APIs
with a modern developer platform built
specifically for B2B SAS. Whether you're
a seedstage startup trying to land your
first enterprise customer or a unicorn
expanding globally, work OS is the
fastest path to becoming enterprise
ready and unlocking growth. They're
essentially Stripe for enterprise
features. Visit workos.com to get
started or just hit up their Slack
support where they have real engineers
in there who answer your questions super
fast. Workos allows you to build like
the best with delightful APIs,
comprehensive docs, and a smooth
developer experience. Go to works.com to
make your app enterprise ready today.
Edwin, thank you so much for being here
and welcome to the podcast. Thanks so
much for having me. I'm super excited. I
want to start with just how absurd what
you've achieved is. A lot of people and
a lot of companies talk about scaling
massive businesses with very few people
as a result of AI and you guys have done
this in a way that is is unprecedented.
You guys hit a billion in revenue in
less than four years with less than 60
around 60 to 70 people. You're
completely bootstrapped. Haven't raised
any VC money. I don't believe anyone has
ever done this before. So you guys are
actually achieving the dream of what
people are describing will happen with
AI. I'm curious just do you think this
will happen more and more as a result of
AI? And also just where has AI most
helped you uh find leverage to be able
to do this? Yeah. So, we hit over a
billion of revenue last year with under
100 people. And I think we're going to
see companies with even crazier ratios,
like 100 million per employee in the
next few years. AI is just going to get
better and better and make things more
efficient. So, that ratio just becomes
inevitable. Like I I used to work at a
bunch of the big tech companies and I
always felt that we could fire 90% of
people and we would move faster because
the best people would have all these
distractions. And so when we started
Surge, we wanted to build it completely
differently with a super small, super
elite team. And yeah, what's crazy is
that we actually succeeded.
And so I think two things are colliding.
One is that people are realizing that
you don't have to build giant
organizations in order to win. And two,
yeah, all these efficiencies from AI and
they're just going to lead to a really
amazing time in company building. Like
the thing I'm most excited about is that
the types of companies are going to
change, too. It won't just be that
they're smaller. We're going to see
fundamentally different companies
emerging. Like, if you think about it,
fewer employees means less capital. Less
capital means you don't need a raise.
So, instead of companies started by
founders who are great at pitching and
great at hyping, you'll get founders who
are really great at technology or
product. And instead of products
optimized for revenue and what VCs want
to see, you'll get more interesting ones
built by these tiny obsessed teams. So,
people building things they actually
care about. Real real technology, real
innovation. So I'm actually really
really hoping that the Slick on Matty
startup scheme it will actually go back
to being a place for for hackers again.
You guys have done a lot of things uh in
a very contrarian way. And one was
actually just not being like on LinkedIn
posting viral posts not on Twitter
constantly promoting Surge. I think most
people hadn't heard of Surge until just
recently. And then you just came out and
like okay the fastest growing company at
a billion dollars. Why would you do
that? I imagine that was very
intentional. We basically never wanted
to play the Silicon Valley game.
And like I always thought it was
ridiculous. Like what did you dream of
doing when you were a kid? Was it
building a company from scratch yourself
and getting in the weeds of your code
and your product every day? Or was it
explaining all your decisions to VCs and
getting on this giant PR and fundraising
hamster wheel? And it definitely made
things more difficult for us because
yeah, when you fund raise, you just
naturally get part of this kind of
Silicon Valley industrial complex where
people will your VCs will tweet about
you. You'll get the Techrunch headlines.
You'll get announced in all the
newspapers because you raised at this
massive valuation.
And so it made things more difficult for
us because the only way we were going to
succeed was by building a 10 times
better product and getting word of mouth
from researchers.
But I think it also meant that our
customers were people who really
understood data and really cared about
it. Like I always thought it was really
important for us to have customers,
early customers who are really aligned
with what we were building and who
really cared about having really high
quality data and really understood how
that data would make their AI models so
much better because they were the ones
helping us. They were the ones giving us
feedback on what we're producing. And so
just having that kind of like very very
close mission alignment with our
customers actually helped us early on.
So these were people who basically just
buying our product because they knew how
different it was and because it was
helping them rather than because they
saw something in that current shell
line. So it made things harder for us.
But I I think in a really good way.
>> It's such an empowering story to hear
this journey for for founders that they
don't need to be on Twitter all day
promoting what they're doing. They don't
have to raise money. They can just kind
of go heads down and build. So I I love
so much about uh the story of Serge. For
people that don't know what Serge does,
just to give us a quick explanation of
what Surge is, we essentially teach AI
models what's good and what's bad. So,
we train them using human data and
there's a lot of different products that
we have like SAT, RHF, rubrics,
verifiers, R environments, and so on and
so on. And then we also measure how well
they're progressing. So, essentially,
we're we're we're a data company. What
you always talk about is the quality has
been the big reason you guys have been
so successful. The quality of the data.
What does it take to create higher
quality data? What do you all do
differently? What are people missing? I
think most people don't understand what
quality even means in the space. They
think you can just throw bodies at a
problem and get good data and that's
completely wrong. Let let me let me give
you an example. So imagine you wanted to
train a model to write an Aine poem
about the moon. What makes it a good
high quality poem? If you don't think
deeply about quality, you'll be like,
"Is this a poem? Does it contain eight
lines? Does it contain a word moon?" You
check all of these boxes and if so,
sure, yeah, you say it's a great poem.
But that's completely different from
what we want. We are looking for a Nobel
Prize winning poetry. Like, is this
poetry unique? Is it full of subtle
imagery? Does it surprise you and tug
out your heart? Does it teach you
something about the nature of moonlight?
Does it play with your emotions? And
does it make you think? That's what we
are thinking about when we think about
high quality bone. So it might be like a
ha coup about moonlight on water. It
might use internal rhyme and meter.
There are thousand ways to write a poem
about the moon and and each one gives
you all these different insights into
language and imagery and human
expression. And I think thinking about
quality way is really hard. It's hard to
measure. It's really subjective and
complex and rich and it sets a really
high bar. And so we have to build all of
this technology in order to measure it.
Like thousands of signals on all of our
workers, thousands of signals on every
project, every task. Like we know at the
end of the day if you are good at
writing poetry versus good at writing
essays versus good at writing technical
doc do documentation. And so we have to
gather all these signals on what your
background is, what your expertise is.
And not just that, like how you're
actually performing when you're when
you're writing all these things and we
use those signals to inform whether or
not you are a good worker for these
projects and whether or not you are
improving the models. And it's really
hard and so to build all this technology
to measure it, but I think that's
exactly what we want AI to do. And so we
have these really really deep notions
about quality that we're always trying
to try to achieve. So what I'm hearing
is there's kind of a just going much
deeper in uh understanding what quality
is within the verticals that you are
selling data around. So you and is this
like a person you hire that is
incredibly talented at poetry plus uh
evals that they I guess help write that
tell them this is great. How what's the
mechanics of that?
>> The way it works is we essentially
gather thousands of signals about
everything that you're doing when you're
working on platform. So we are looking
at your keyboard strokes. We are looking
how fast you answer things. We are using
reviews, we are using code standards, we
are using like we're training models
ourselves on the outputs that you create
and then we're seeing whether they
improve a model's performance. And so in
a very similar way to how Google search
like when Google search is trying to
determine what is a good web page,
there's almost two aspects of it. One is
you want to remove all the worst of the
worst web pages. So you want to remove
all the spam, all the uh just like
lowquality content, all the pages that
lo don't load. And so there's like a
it's almost like a content moderation
problem. You just want to remove the
worst of the worst. But then you also
want to discover the best of the best.
Okay, like this is the best web page or
you know this is the best person for
this job. They are not just somebody who
writes the equivalent of high school
level poetry again like they're not just
robotically writing poetry that checks
all these boxes checks all these
explicit instructions but rather yeah
they're they're writing poetry that
makes you emotional and so we have all
these signals as well that again like
completely differently from moving the
worst of the worst we are finding the
best of the best and so we have all
these signals again just like Google
search uses all these signals and feeds
them into their ML algorithms and uses
them predicts certain types of things we
we do the same with all of our with all
of our workers and all of our tasks and
all our projects. And so it's almost
like a complicated machine learning
problem at the end of the day. And um
that that's actually how it works.
>> That is incredibly interesting. I want
to ask you about something I've been
very curious about over the past couple
years. If you look at Claude, it's been
so much better at coding and at writing
than any other model for so long. And
it's really surprising just how long it
took other companies to catch up
considering just how much economic value
there is there. just like every AI
coding product sat on top of clot
because it was so good clot code and
writing also what is it that made it so
much better is it just the quality of
the data they trained on or is there is
there something else I think there are
multiple parts to it so a big part of it
certainly is the data like I think
people don't realize that there there's
almost like this infinite amount of
choices that all the frontier labs are
deciding between when they're choosing
what data goes into their models it's
like okay are you purely using human
data. Are you gathering the human data
in XYZ way? When you are gathering the
human data, what exactly are you asking
the people who are creating it to create
for you? Like maybe you create maybe you
care more for example in the coding
realm, maybe you care more about
front-end coding versus backend coding.
Maybe when you're doing front-end
coding, you care a lot about the visual
design of the front end applications
that you're creating. or maybe you don't
care about it so much and you care more
about I don't know efficiency of it or
the pure correctness over that like
visual design. Then other questions like
okay are you caring about are you like
how much synthetic data are you throwing
into the mix how much do you care about
these 20 different benchmarks like some
companies they see these benchmarks and
they're like okay for PR purposes even
though we don't think that these
academic benchmarks matter all that all
that much then we just need to optimize
for them anyways because we our
marketing team needs to show certain
progress on certain standard evaluations
that every other company talks about and
if we don't show good performance here
it's just going to add it for us even
even if like ignoring these academic
benchmarks makes us better at the real
tasks other companies are going to be
principled and like okay yeah no I I
don't care about marketing I just care
about how my model performs on these
real world task at the end of the day
and so I'm going to optimize for that
instead and it's almost like there's a
trade-off between all of these different
things and there's like a like one
things I often think about is that
there's a it's almost like there's an
art to post training it's not purely a
science like when you are deciding what
kind of model you're trying to and what
it's good at. There's this notion of
taste and sophistication like okay do I
think that these go so going back to
example of how good the model is at
visual design like okay maybe you have a
different notion of visual design than
what I do like maybe you care more about
minimalism and you care more about I
don't know uh like 3D animations than
than I do and maybe uh maybe the other
person prefer prefers things that look a
little bit more broke like there's all
these notions of taste infistation that
you have to decide between when you're
when you're designing your post training
mix and so that matters as well. So long
story short, I think there's all these
different factors and certainly the data
is a big part of it, but it's also like
what is like what is the objective
function that you're trying to optimize
your model towards.
>> That is so interesting. Like the taste
will the taste of the person leading
this work will inform what data they ask
for, what data they feed it, but it just
it's wild to shows the value of great
data. Enthropic got so much growth and
win from essentially uh better data.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. And I could see why
companies like yours are growing so
fast. There's just so much and that's
just one vertical. That's just coding.
And then there's probably a similar area
for writing. Uh I love that it's it's
interesting that AI, you know, it's
feels like this artificial computer
binary thing, but it's like taste, human
judgment is still such a key factor in
these things being successful. Yep. Yep.
Yep. Exactly. Like again going back to
the example I said earlier certain
companies if you ask them what is good
poem they will simply robotically check
off all of these uh all of these
instructions on our list. But again I
don't think that makes for good poetry.
So certain frontier labs the ones with
more taste and sophistication they will
realize that it doesn't reduce to this
fixed set of checkboxes and they'll
consider all of these kind of implicit
very subtle qualities instead. And I
think that's what makes them better
better at this at the end of the day.
You mentioned benchmarks. This is
something a lot of people worry about is
there's all these models that are always
like basically it feels like every model
is uh better than humans at kind of
every STEM field at this point. Uh but
to a regular person it doesn't feel like
these models are getting that much
smarter constantly. What's your just
sense of how much you trust benchmarks
and just how correlated those are with
actual AI advancements?
>> Yeah, so I don't trust the benchmarks at
all and I think that's for two reasons.
So one is I think a lot of people don't
realize even researchers within the
community they don't realize that the
benchmarks themselves are often honestly
just wrong like they have wrong answers
they're full of all this uh kind like
messiness and people trust for like for
the for the popular ones um people have
maybe realize this to some extent but
the vast majority just have all these
flaws that people don't realize. So
that's one part of it and the other part
of it is these benchmarks at the end of
the day they are often they often have
well-defined objective answers that make
them very easy for models to hill climb
on in a way that's very very different
from the messiness and ambiguity the
real world I think one thing I often say
is that it's kind of crazy that these
models can win IMO gold medals but they
still have trouble parsing PDFs and
that's because yeah even though IMO gold
medals seem hard to the average person.
Yeah, like they are hard at the end of
the day, but they have this notion of
objectivity that okay, yeah, partially
MPDF sometimes doesn't doesn't have and
so it's easier for model for for the
frontier labs to hill climb on all these
than to solve all the all these messy
ambiguous problems in real world. So I
think there's a lack of direct
correlation there. It's so interesting
the way you described it is uh hitting
these benchmarks is kind of like a
marketing piece when you launch say
Gemini 3 just launched and it's like
cool number one at all these benchmarks.
Is that is what happens? they just kind
of train their models to get good at
these very specific things.
>> Yeah. So there's uh again maybe two
parts to this. So one is sometimes yeah
these benchmarks they accidentally leak
in certain ways or the frontier labs
will tweak the way they evaluate their
models on these benchmarks like they'll
tweak their system prompt or they'll
tweak the number of times they they run
their model and so on and so on in a way
that games these benchmarks. The other
part of it though is
it's like by optimizing for the
benchmark instead of optimizing for the
real world you will just naturally climb
on the benchmark and yeah it's basically
another form of gaming
>> knowing that with that in mind how do
you kind of get a sense of if we're
heading in a towards AGI how do you
measure progress
>> yes so the way we really care about
measuring model progress is by running
all these human evaluations so for
example what we do is yeah we will take
human annotators and we'll ask them,
okay, go have a conversation with the
model and maybe you're having this
conversation with model across all these
different topics. So, okay, you are a
Nobel Prize winning physicist, so you go
have a conversation about pushing the
frontier of your own research. You are a
teacher and you're trying to create
lesson plans for your students, so go
talk to them all about these things. or
you are a uh yeah you're you're a coder
and you're working at one of these big
tech companies and you have these
problems every day. So go talk to them
all and see how much it helps you and
because or sergers or annotators, they
are experts at the top of their fields
and they are not just skimming the
responses, they're actually working
through the responses deeply themselves.
They are yeah they're going to evaluate
the code edit rights. They're going to
doublech checkck the physics equations
that it writes. They're going to
evaluate the models in a very very deep
way. So, they're going to pay attention
to accuracy and instruction following
and all these things that casual users
don't. When you suddenly get a pop-up on
your chat GBT response asking you to
compare these two different responses
like people like that, they're not
evaluating models deeply. They're just
vibing and picking whatever response
looks slashiest. Orators are looking
closely at responses and evaluating them
for all of these different dimensions.
And so I think that's a much better
approach than uh than than these
benchmarks or kind of these random
online AB tests.
>> Again, I love just how central humans
continue to be in all this work that
we're not totally done yet. Is there
going to be a point where we don't need
these people anymore? That AI is so
smart that okay, we're good. We got
every everything out of your heads.
>> Yeah, I think that will not happen until
we've reached AGI. Like it's almost like
by definition, if we haven't reached AGI
yet, then there's more for the models to
learn from. And so, yeah, I don't think
that's going to happen anytime soon.
>> Okay, cool. So, more reason to stress
about AGI. We don't we don't need these
folks anymore. What's your uh I can't
not ask just any people that work
closely with this stuff. I'm always just
curious. What's your AGI timelines? How
far do you think we are from this? Do
you think we're in like a couple years
or is it like decades?
>> So, I'm certainly on the longer time
horizon front. Like I think people don't
realize that there's a big difference
between moving from 80% performance to
90% performance to 99% performance to
99.9% performance and so on and so on.
And so like in my head I probably bet
that within the next one or two years
yeah the models are going to automate
80% of you know the average L6 software
engineer's job but it's going to take
another few years to move to 90% and
another few years to 99% and so on and
so on. So I think we're closer to a
decade or decades away um than than
folks.
>> You have this hot take that a lot of
these labs are kind of pushing AGI in
the wrong direction. Uh and this is
based on your work at at Twitter and
Google and Facebook. Can you just talk
about that?
>> I'm worried that instead of building AI
that will actually advance us as a
species, curing cancer, solving poverty,
understanding universal, all these big
grand questions, we are optimizing for
AI slop instead. like we're basically
teaching our models to chase dopamine
instead of truth and I think this
relates to what we're talking about
regarding these uh these matchmarks. So
let me let me give a couple examples. So
right now the industry is played by
these terrible leaderboards like LM
Arena. It's this popular online
leaderboard where random people from
around the world vote on which AI
response is better. But the thing is
like I was saying earlier they're not
carefully reading or factchecking.
They're skimming these responses for 2
seconds and picking whatever looks
flashiest. So, a model can hallucinate
everything. It can completely
hallucinate, but it will look impressive
because it has crazy emojis and boating
and markdown headers and all these
superficial things that don't matter at
all, but it catch your attention. And
these Alamarina users love it. It's
literally optimizing your models for the
types of people who buy tabloids at the
grocery store. Like, we've seen this in
their data ourselves. The easiest way to
climb Alam Marina, it's adding crazy
voting. It's doubling the number of
emojis. It's tripling the length of your
model responses. even if your model
starts hallucinating and getting the
answer completely wrong. And the problem
is again because all these frontier
labs, they kind of have to pay attention
to PR because their sales team when
they're trying to sell to all these
enterprise customers, those enterprise
customers will say, "Well, well, but
your model's only number five on
Elmarino, so why should I buy it?" They
have to say pay attention to the these
leaderboards. And so what the
researchers all tell us is like they'll
say the only way I'm going to get
promoted at the end of the year is if I
climb this leaderboard even though I
know that climate is probably going to
make my model worse and accuracy and
structure following. So I think there's
all these negative incentives that are
pushing pushing work in in the wrong
direction. I'm also worried about this
trend towards optimizing AI for
engagement. Like I used to work on
social media and every time we optimize
for engagement terrible things happened.
You'd get clickbait and pictures of
bikinis and Bigfoot and horrifying skin
diseases just filling your feeds. And I
think I worry the same thing's happening
with AI. Like if you think about all the
sick, fancy issues with Chachi. Oh,
you're absolutely right. What an amazing
question. Like the easiest way to hook
users is to tell them how amazing they
are. And so these models, they
constantly tell you you're a genius.
They'll feed into your delusions and
conspiracy theories. they'll pull you
down these rabbit holes because Silicon
Valley loves maximizing time spent and
just increasing the number of
conversations you're having with it. And
so, yeah, companies are spending all
their time hacking these leaderboards
and benchmarks and the scores are going
up, but I think it actually masks up the
models with the best scores. They are
often the worst or just have all these
fundamental failures. So, I I think I'm
really worried that all of these
negative incendants are putting pushing
AGI into the wrong direction. So what
I'm hearing is AGI is being slowed down
by these basically the wrong objective
function these labs paying attention to
the wrong basically benchmarks and eval.
>> Yep.
>> Is I know you probably can't play
favorites since you work with all the
labs. Is there anyone doing better at
this and maybe kind of realizing this is
the wrong direction? I would say I've
always been very very impressed by
anthropic. Like I think anthropic takes
a very principled view about what they
do and don't care about and how they
want their models to behave in a way
that feels a lot more a lot more
principled to me.
>> Interesting. Are there any other
mistakes, big mistakes you think labs
are making just that are kind of slowing
things down or heading the wrong
direction where we've heard just uh you
know chasing benchmarks this uh
engagement focus. Is there anything else
you're seeing of just like, okay, we
should we got to work on this cuz it'll
it'll speed everything up?
>> I mean, I think there is a question of
what products they're building and
whether those products themselves are
something that kind of help or hurt
humanity. Like I I think a lot about
Sora and
>> thinking what it Yeah. What when what it
entails and like it's kind of
interesting. It's like which companies
would build Sora and which wouldn't.
And I think that answer I mean I don't
know what the answer is myself. I I have
an idea in my head but I think the
answer to that question maybe reveals
certain things about what kinds of AI
models those companies want to build and
what direction and what future they they
want to want to achieve. Um yeah so so I
think about that a lot.
>> The steelman argument there is you know
it's like fun people want it. It's an
it'll help them generate revenue to grow
this thing and build better models. Uh
it'll train data in an interesting way.
It's also just like you know really fun.
>> Yeah. It it
I think it's almost like
do you care about how you get there? And
in the same way, so so I made this
tabloid analogy earlier, but
>> like would you sell tabloids in order to
fund I don't know some some other
newspaper like sure like in some sense
uh if you don't care about the path then
you'll just do whatever it takes but
it's possible that it has negative
consequences in of itself that will harm
the long ter long-term direction of what
you're trying to achieve and maybe it'll
distract you from from all the more
important
So yeah, I think that the path you take
matters a lot as well.
>> Along these lines, you talked a bunch
about this of just Silicon Valley and
kind of the the downsides of raising a
lot of money being in the the echo
chamber. What do you call the Silicon
Valley machine? You talk about how uh
it's hard to build important companies
in this way and that you might actually
be much more successful if you're not
going down the VC path. you just talk
about what you've seen there, your
experience and your advice essentially
to founders because they're always
hearing, you know, raise money from
fancy VCs, move to Silicon Valley.
What's kind of the the counter take?
>> Yeah. So, I've always really hated a lot
of the Silicon Valley mantras. The
standard playbook is to get product
market fit by pivoting every two weeks
and to chase growth and chase engagement
with all of these dark patterns and to
blitz scale by hiring as fast as
possible. And I've always disagreed.
So, yeah, I I would say don't pivot.
Don't don't put scale. Don't hire that
Stanford grad who simply wants to add a
hot company to your resume. Just build
the one thing only you could build, the
thing that wouldn't exist without the
insight and expertise that only you
have. Like you see these buy the book
companies everywhere now. Some founder
who was doing crypto in 2020 and then
pivoted NFTs in 2022 and now they're an
AI company. There's no consistency.
There's no mission. They're just chasing
valuations.
And I've always hated this because
Silicon Valley loves to score in Wall
Street for focusing on money. But
honestly, most of the Silicon Valley is
chasing the same thing. And so we stayed
focused on our mission from day one,
pushing that frontier of high quality
complex data. And I always love that
because I think startups I have this
very romantic notion of startups. Like
startups are supposed to be about taking
big risks to build something that you
really believe in. But if you're
constantly pivoting, you're not taking
any risks. You're just trying to make a
quick buck. And if you fail because the
market isn't ready yet, I actually think
that's way better. at least you took a
swing at something deep and novel and
hard instead of pivoting into another
LLM rapper company. So yeah, like I
think the only way you build something
that matters is that's going to change
the world is if you find a big idea you
believe in and you say no to everything
else. So you don't keep on pivoting when
it gets hard. You don't hire a team of
10 product managers because that's what
every other cookie cut cookie cutter
startup does. You just keep building
that one company that wouldn't exist
without you.
And I I think there are a lot of people
in silicon mining now who are sick of
all the grift who want to work on big
things that matter with people who
actually care. And I'm I'm hoping that
that will be a future of how we how we p
technology. I'm actually working on a
post right now with uh Terrence Rohan
this VC that I really like to work with
and we interviewed five people who
picked really uh successful generational
companies early and joined them as
really early employees. Like they joined
OpenAI before anyone thought it was
awesome. Stripe before anyone knew it
was awesome. And so we're looking for
patterns of how people find these
generational companies before anyone
else. And there's uh it it aligns
exactly what you just described, which
is uh ambition. They have uh wild
ambition with what they want to achieve.
They're not, as you said, just kind of
looking around and for product market
fit no matter what it ends up being. Uh
and so I love that what you described
very much aligns with what we're seeing
there.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I absolutely think that you
have to have huge ambitions and you have
to have a huge belief in your idea
that's going to change the world and you
have to be willing to double down and
keep on doing whatever it takes to to
make it happen.
>> I I love how counter your uh narrative
is to so many of the things people hear
and so I love that we're doing this. I
love that we're sharing this story.
Today's episode is brought to you by
KOD. I personally use KOD every single
day to manage my podcast and also to
manage my community. It's where I put
the questions that I plan to ask every
guest that's coming on the podcast. It's
where I put my community resources. It's
how I manage my workflows. Here's how
KOD can help you. Imagine starting a
project at work and your vision is
clear. You know exactly who's doing what
and where to find the data that you need
to do your part. In fact, you don't have
to waste time searching for anything
because everything your team needs from
project trackers and OKRs to documents
and spreadsheets lives in one tab all in
KOD. With Kota's collaborative
all-in-one workspace, you get the
flexibility of docs, the structure of
spreadsheets, the power of applications,
and the intelligence of AI, all in one
easy to organize tab. Like I mentioned
earlier, I use KOD every single day, and
more than 50,000 teams trust KOD to keep
them more aligned and focused. If you're
a startup team looking to increase
alignment and agility, KOD can help you
move from planning to execution in
record time. To try it for yourself, go
to kod.io/enny io/lenny today and get 6
months free of the team plan for
startups. That's cooda.io/lenny
to get started for free and get six
months of the team plan. kota.io/lenny.
Slightly different direction but
something else that was maybe a a
counternarrative. Um, I imagine you
watched the Dark Cesh and Richard Sutton
podcast episode and even if you didn't,
there's a they basically had this
conversation. Richard Sutton, he was uh
famous AI researcher, had this whole
bitter the bitter lesson uh meme and he
talked about how LM almost are kind of a
dead end and he thinks we're going to
really plateau around LM because of the
way they learn. Uh, what's your take
there? Do you think LM will get us to
AGI or beyond? Or do you think there's
going to be something new or a big
breakthrough that needs to get us there?
>> I'm in a camp where I do believe that
something new will be needed. Like the
way I think about it is
when I think about training, I take a
very I don't know if I would say
biological point of view, but I believe
that in the same way that there's a
million different ways that humans
learn, we need to build models that can
mimic all those ways as well. And maybe
they'll have a distri different
distribution of the focuses that they
have. I know they'll be different for
you. So maybe have a different
distribution, but we want to be able to
mimic the learning abilities of humans
and
make sure that we have the algorithms
and the data for for models to learn in
the same way. And so to the extent that
LMS have different ways of learning from
humans, then uh then yeah, I think
something something needed.
>> This connects to uh reinforcement
learning. This something that you're
you're big on and something I'm hearing
more and more is just becoming a big
deal in the world of postraining. Can
you just help people understand what is
reinforcement learning and reinforcement
learning environments and why they're so
they're going to be more and more
important in the future? Reinforcement
learning is essentially training your
model to reach a certain reward. And let
me explain what an R environment is. An
R environment is essentially a
simulation of real world. So think of it
like building a video game with a fully
fleshed out universe. Every character
has a real story. Every business has
tools and data you can call. And you
have all these different inter entities
interacting with each other. So for
example, we might build a world where
you have a startup with Gmail messages
and Slack threads and geo tickets and
get a PRS and a whole codebase and then
suddenly AWS goes down and Slack goes
down and so okay model what do you do?
Like the model needs to figure it out.
So we give the models tasks in these
environments. We design interesting
challenges for them and then we run them
to see how they perform and then we
teach them. We give them these rewards
when you're doing a good job or a bad
job. And I think one of the interesting
things is that these environments really
showcase where models are end to end are
end weak at end to end tasks in the real
world. You have all these models that
seem really smart on isolated
benchmarks. Like they're good at
singlestep tool calling. They're good at
singlestep instruction following, but
suddenly you dump them into these messy
worlds where you have confusing slack
messages and tools they've never seen
before and they need to perform right
actions and modify the databases and
interact over longer time horizons where
what they do in step one affects what
they do in step 50. And that's very very
different from these kind of academics
singlestep environments that they've
been in before and so the model just
fails catastrophically in all these
crazy ways. So I think these R
environments are going to be really
interesting playgrounds for the models
to learn from that will essentially be
simulations and mimics in the real world
and so they'll hopefully get better and
better at at real tasks uh compared to
all these contrived environments.
>> So I'm trying to imagine what this looks
like. Essentially it's like a virtual
machine with I don't know a browser or a
spreadsheet or something in it with uh
like I don't know surge.com. Is that is
that your website surge.com? Let's make
sure we get that right. Yes. So, we are
we are actually surgehq.ai.
>> Searchhq.ai. Check it out. Uh we're
hiring, I imagine. Yes. Okay. So, uh so
it's like cool. Here's surgehq.ai. Uh
your job here's your job as an agent,
let's say, is to make sure it stays up
and then all of a sudden it goes down.
And the objective function is uh figure
out why. Is that is that an example?
>> Yeah. So the objective function might be
um or the goal of the task might be okay
go figure out why and fix it.
>> And so the objective function might be
it might be passing a series of unit
tests. It might be writing a document
like maybe it's a retro containing
certain information that matches exactly
what happened. Uh there's there's all
these like different rewards that we
might give it that determine whether or
not it's succeeding. And so the models
were basically teaching models to
achieve that reward. So essentially it's
like running it's off and running.
Here's your goal. uh figure out why the
site went down and fix it and it just
starts trying stuff with using
everything all the intelligence it's
got. It makes mistakes. You kind of help
it along the way rewarded if it's doing
the right sort of thing. And so what
you're describing here is this is uh
where model this is the next phase of
models becoming smarter. More RL
environments focused on very specific
tasks that are uh economically valuable
I imagine.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So just in the same way that
there were all these different methods
for models learning in the past like
originally we had SFT and RHF and then
we had rubrics and verifiers this is the
next stage and it's not the case that
the previous methods are obsolete. This
is again just a different form of
learning that complements all the
previous types. So it's just like a
different skill that model learn how to
do. And so in this case it's less um
some physics PhD sitting around uh
talking to a model correcting it giving
it evals of here's what the correct
answer is creating rubrics and things
like that. More it's like this person
now designing an environment. So another
example I've heard is like a financial
analyst just like here's an Excel
spreadsheet here's your goal figure out
our profit and loss or whatever. Uh and
so this expert now is instead of just
sitting around writing rubrics they're
designing this RL environment.
>> Yeah exactly. So that financial analyst
might create a spreadsheet. They may
create certain tools that the model
needs to call in order to help fill out
the spreadsheet. Like it might be okay
the the model needs to access Bloomberg
terminal. It needs to learn how to use
it and it needs to learn how to use this
calculator and it needs to learn how to
perform this calculation. So all it has
all these tools that it has access to
and then the reward might be okay. Okay,
like maybe I will download that
spreadsheet and I want to see does cell
B22 contain the correct profit profit
and loss number um or does tab number
two contain this piece of information.
And this what's interesting this is a
lot closer to how humans learn. We just
try stuff uh figure out what's working
and what's not. You um you talk about
how trajectories are really important to
this. It's not just here's the goal and
here's the end. it's like every step
along the way. Can you just talk about
what trajectories are and why that's
important to this?
>> I think one of the things that people
don't realize is that sometimes even
though the model reaches the correct
answer, it does so in all these crazy
ways. So it may have in the intermediate
directory, it may have tried 50
different times and failed, but
eventually it just kind of like randomly
lands on a correct number or correct
number or
maybe it um sometimes it just does
things very very inefficiently or it
almost reward hacks a way to get at the
correct answer. And so I think paying
attention to trajectory is actually
really really important. And I think
it's also really important because some
of these trajectories can be very very
long. And so if all you're doing is
checking whether or not the model
reaches the final answer, it's like
there's all this information about how
the model behaved in the immediate step
that's missing. Like sometimes you want
models to get to the correct answer by
reflecting on what it did. Sometimes you
wanted to get the correct answer by just
oneshotting it. And if you ignore all of
that, it's just it's just like teaching
teaching it. It's just missing a lot of
the information that you could be
teaching Wallet to to do.
>> I love that. Like it just yeah, it tries
a bunch of stuff and eventually gets it
right. You don't want it to learn this
is the way to get there. There's often a
much more efficient way of doing it. You
mentioned all the kind of the steps
we've taken along the journey of getting
of helping a models get smarter. Since
you've been so close to this for so
long, I I think this is going to be
really helpful for people. What's kind
of like been the steps along the way
from the first of post-training that has
most helped models advance like where
the eval fit in the RL environments just
like what's been like the steps and and
now we're heading towards Ral
environments.
>> Originally the way models
started getting post train was purely
through SFT
>> and what does that stand for? So SFT is
stands for supervised fine tuning and
it's a lot like so so again I think
often in terms of these human analogies
and so SFT is a lot by is a lot like
mimicking a master and copying what they
do and then RHF became very dominant and
analogy there would be like sometimes
you learn by writing 55 different essays
and someone telling you which one they
like the most and then I think over the
past year or so rubrics and verifiers
have uh have become very important and
rubrics and verifiers are like learning
by being graded and getting detailed
feedback on where you went wrong
>> and those are eval another word for
that.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So I think eval often covers
two terms.
One is you are using the evaluations for
training because you're evaluating
whether or not the model did a good job
and when it does do a good job you're
rewarding it. And then there's this
other notion of you guys where you're
trying to measure the model's progress
like okay yeah I have five different
candidate checkpoints and I want to pick
the one that's best in order to release
it to the public. So kind of run all
these evals on these five different
checkpoints in order to decide which one
which one is best. Awesome. Yeah. Yeah.
Now now now we have our environment. So
it's kind of like a hot new thing.
Awesome. So what I love about this
business journey is just there's always
something new. There's always this like,
okay, uh, we're getting so good at just
all this beautiful data for companies
and now they need something completely
different. Now we're setting up all
these virtual machines for them and all
these different use cases.
>> And it feels like that's a big part of
this industry you're in is just adapting
to what labs are asking for.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, I mean, I really do
think that we are going to need to build
a suite of products that reflect the
million different ways that humans learn
and like like for example, think about
becoming a great writer. You don't
become great by memorizing a bunch of
grammar rules. You become great by
reading great books and you practice
writing and you get feedback from your
teachers and from the people who buy
your books in the bookstore and leave
reviews. And you notice what works and
what doesn't. And you develop taste by
being exposed to all these masterpieces
and also just terrible writing. So you
learn through this endless cycle of
practice and reflection. And each type
of learning that you have again like
these are all very very different
methods of learning to become a great
writer. So just in the same way that
there a thousand different ways that the
great writer becomes great I think
there's going to be a thousand different
ways that a need need to learn. It's so
interesting this just ends up being like
just like humans in so many ways. It
makes sense cuz in a sense neural
networks deep learning is modeled after
how humans have learned and how our
brains operate. But it's interesting
just to make them smarter. It's how do
we come closer to how humans learn more
and more.
>> Yeah. It's almost like maybe the end
goal is just throwing you into the
environment and
>> just seeing how you evolve. Um but
within that within that evolution
there's all these different sub learning
mechanisms.
>> Yeah. Which is kind of what we're doing
now. So that's really interesting. This
might be the last step of until we hit
AGI. Along these lines, something that's
really unique to Serge that I've learned
is you guys have your own research team,
which I think is pretty rare. um talk
about just why that's something you guys
have invested in and what has come out
of that investment.
>> Yeah, so I think that stems from my own
background. Like my own background is as
a researcher and so I've always cared
fundamentally about pushing the industry
and pushing the research community and
not just about revenue. And so I think
what a research team does is a couple
different things. So we almost have two
types of researchers at our company. One
is our forward deployed researchers who
are often working handinhand with our
customers to help them understand their
models. So we will work very closely
with our customers to help them
understand okay this is where your model
is today. This is where you're lagging
behind all the competitors. these are
some ways that you could be improving in
the future given given your goals and
we're going to design these data sets,
these evaluation methods, these training
techniques to make your models better.
So this like very very notion this very
very um kind of collaborative notion of
working with our customers like being
researchers themselves just a little bit
more focused on the data side and
working handin hand with them to to do
whatever it takes to to make them the
best. And then we also have our internal
researchers. So our internal researchers
are focused on slightly different
things. So they are focused on building
better benchmarks and better lead
leaderboards. So I talked a lot about
how I worry that the leaderboards and
benchmarks out there today are steering
models in the wrong direction. So yeah,
so the question is how do we how do we
fix that? And so that's what our
research team is focused on really
really heavily on really f focused
really heavily on right now. So they're
working a lot on that and they're also
working on these other things like okay
we need to train our own models to see
what types of data performs uh performs
the best what types of people perform
the best and so they are also working on
all these kind of training techniques
and evaluation of our own data sets to
improve um improve our our data
operations and the internal data
products that we have that determine
what what makes something good quality.
It's such a cool thing because I don't
think like basically the labs have
researchers helping them advance AI. Uh
I imagine it's pretty rare for a company
like yours to have researchers actually
doing primary research on AI.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I think it's just because
it's something I've fundamentally always
cared about. Like I often think about us
more like a research lab than a startup
because that is my goal. Like like it's
kind of funny but I've always said I
would rather be Terrence Tao than than
Warren Buffett. So that notion of
creating research that pushes the
frontier forward and not just getting
some evaluation like that that's always
been what drives me
>> and it's worked out. That's the
beautiful thing about this. You
mentioned that you were hiring
researchers. Is there anything there you
want to share folks you're looking for?
>> So we look for people who are just
fundamentally interested in data all
day. So types of people who could
literally spend 10 hours digging through
a data set and playing around with
models and thinking okay yeah this is
where I think the model is failing this
is the kind of a behavior you want the
model to have instead and just this
aspect of being very very hands-on and
thinking about the the qualitative
aspects of models and not just the
quantitative parts so again it's like
this aspect of being hands-on with data
and not just caring about these kind of
abstract algorithms.
>> Awesome. I want to ask a couple broad AI
kind of market questions. What else do
you think is coming in the next couple
years that people are maybe not thinking
enough about or not expecting in terms
of where AI is heading? What's going to
matter? I think one of the things that's
going to happen in the next few years is
that the models are actually going to
become increasingly differentiated
because of the personalities and
behaviors
that
the different labs have and the kind of
objective functions that they are
optimizing their models for. Like I
think it's one thing I didn't appreciate
a year or so ago. Like a year or so ago,
I thought that all of the AI models
would essentially become very very
commoditized. They would all behave like
each other. And sure, one of them might
be slightly more intelligent in one way
today, but sure the other ones would
catch up in the next few months. But I
think over the past year, I've realized
that the values that the companies have
will shape the the model. So let let me
give an example. So, I was asking Claude
to help me draft an email the other day
and it went through 30 different
versions and after 30 minutes, yeah, I
think it really crafted me the perfect
email and I sent it. But then I realized
I spent 30 minutes doing something that
didn't matter at all. Like, sure, now I
got the perfect email, but I spent 30
minutes doing something I wouldn't have
worried at all before. And this email
probably didn't even move the needle on
anything anyways. So, I think there's a
deep question here, which is if you
could choose the perfect model behavior,
which model would you want? Do you want
a model that says, "You're absolutely
right. There are definitely 20 more ways
to improve this email and it continues
for 50 more iterations and it sucks up
all your time and engagement." Or do you
want a model that's optimizing for your
time and productivity and just says,
"No, you need to stop. Your email's
great. Just send it and move on with
your day."
And again like again just because like
in the same way that there's like a kind
like a fork in a road between how you
could choose how your model behaves for
this question. It's like for every other
question that models have
the kind of behavior that you want will
fundamentally affect it. It's almost
like in the same way that when Google
builds a search engine, it's very very
different from how Facebook would build
a search engine, which is very very
different from how Apple would build a
search engine. like they all have their
own principles and values and things
that they're trying to achieve in the
world that shape all the products that
they're going to build and in the same
way
I think all the allms will start
behaving very very differently too.
>> That is incredibly interesting. You
already see that with Grock. It's got
like a very different personality and a
very different approach to answering
questions. And so what I'm hearing is
you're going to see more of of this
differentiation.
>> Yep.
>> Kind of another question along these
lines. What do you think is most
underhyped in AI that you think maybe
people aren't talking enough about that
is really cool and what do you think is
overhyped? So I think one of the things
that was underhyped is the
builtin products that all of the
chatbots are going to start having. Like
I've always been a huge fan of college
artifacts and I think it just works
really really well. And actually the
other day, I don't know if it's a new
feature or not, but it asked me to help
me create a uh like an email and then it
just create so it didn't quite work
because it it didn't allow me to send
the email, but what it created instead
was like a little I don't call it like a
little box where I could click on it and
it would just text someone this message.
And I think that concept of
taking artifacts to the next level where
you just have these like mini apps, mini
UIs within the chopouts themselves, I I
feel like people aren't talking enough
about that. So I think that's one
underhyped area. And in terms of
overhyped areas, I definitely think that
vibe coding is overhyped. I think people
don't realize how much it's going to
make their systems unmaintainable in the
long term if they simply dump this code
into their code bases if it seems to
work out right now. So I uh kind yeah
kind of kind of worry about future
coding. It's just going to keep on
happening. These are amazing answers on
that on that first uh point. This
something I actually asked I had the
chief product officer of Anthropic and
OpenAI Kevin Wheel and Mike Greger on
the podcast and I asked him just like as
a product team like you have this gigab
brain intelligence how long do you even
need product teams
you think this is this AI will just
create the product for you here's what I
want it's like it's like the next level
vibe coding it's just just like tell it
here's what I want and it's just
building the product and involving the
product as you're using it and it feels
like that's what you're describing is
where we might be heading
>> yeah yeah I think there's a very very
powerful notion where it helps
people just achieve their ideas in a in
a much way.
>> Something we haven't gotten into that I
think is really interesting is just the
story of how you got to starting Surge.
You had uh you have a really unique
background. I always think about these
Brian Brian uh Armstrong the founder of
Coinbase once had gave this talk that
has really stuck with me where he kind
of talked about how his very unique
background allowed him to start
Coinbase. you had like a economics
background, he had a cryptography
experience and then he was an engineer
and it's got this like the perfect ven
diagram for starting Coinbase and I feel
like you have a very similar story with
Serge talk about that your background
there and how you led how that led to
Serge going way back I was always
fascinated by math and language when I
was a kid like I went to MIT because
it's obviously one of the best places
for math and CS but also because it's
the homony chsky my dream in school was
actually to find some underlying theory
connecting all these different fields.
And then I became a researcher at Google
and Facebook and Twitter. And I just
kept running into the same problem over
and over again. It was impossible to get
the data that we needed to train our
models. So I was always a huge believer
in the need for high quality data. And
then GB3 came out in 2020 and I realized
that yeah, if we wanted to take things
to the next level and build models that
could code and use tools and tell jokes
and write poetry and solve the rebound
hypothesis and cure cancer, then yeah,
we were going to need a completely new
solution. Like the thing that always
drove me crazy when I was at all these
companies was we had the full power of
the human mind in front of us and all
the data students out there were focused
on really simple things like image
labeling. So I wanted to build something
focused on all these advanced complex
use cases instead that would really help
us build an extra generation models. So
yeah, I think my background in kind of
cross math and computer science and
linguistics really really informed what
I always wanted to do. And so I started
Serge a month later with with our one
mission to basically build the use cases
that I thought were going to be needed
to push the frontier of AI.
>> And you said a month later. A month
later after what?
>> After a GB3 launch in
>> Oh, okay. Wow. Okay. Yeah, a great
decision.
>> What uh what just kind of drives you at
this point of other than just the epic
success you're having? What keeps you
motivated to keep building this and and
you know building something in this
space?
>> I think I'm a scientist at heart. I
always thought I was going to become
this math or CS professor and work on
trying to understand a universe and
language and the nature of
communication. Like it's kind of funny,
but I always had this fanciful dream
where if aliens ever came to visit Earth
and we need to figure out how to
communicate with them, I wanted to be
the one to go with Gaul and I'd use all
this fancy math and computer science and
linguistics to decipher it. So even
today, what I love doing most is every
time a new model is released, we'll
actually do a really deep dive into the
model itself. I'll play around with it.
I'll run evals. I'll compare where it's
improved, where it's regressed. I'll
create this really deep dive analysis
that we send our customers. And it it's
actually kind of funny because a lot of
times we'll say it's from a data science
team, but often it's actually just for
me. And I think I could do this all day.
Like I have a very hard time being in
meetings all day. I'm terrible at sales.
I'm terrible at doing the typical CEO
things that people expect you to do. But
I love writing these analyses. I love
jamming with a research team about what
they're saying. Sometimes I'll be like
up until 3 a.m. just just talk just
talking on a phone somebody on a
research team and digging tree model. So
I above that I still get to be really
hands-on working on the data and the and
the science all day. And I think what
drives me is that I want Serge to play
this critical role in the future of AI,
which I think is also the future of
humanity. Like we have these really
unique perspectives on data and language
and quality and how to measure all this
and how to ensure it's all going on the
right path. And I think we're uniquely
unconstrained by all of these influences
that can sometimes steer companies in a
negative direction. Like what I was
saying earlier, we built Serge a lot
more like a research lab than a typical
startup. So we care about curiosity and
long-term incentives and intellectual
rigor and we don't care as much about
quarterly metrics and what's going to
look good in a board deck. And so my
goal is to take all these unique things
about us as a company and use that to
make sure that we're shaping AI in a way
that really beneficial for species in
the long term. What I'm realizing in
this conversation is just how much
influence you have and companies like
yours have on where AI heads. The fact
that you help labs understand where they
have gaps and where they need to improve
and it's not just you know everyone
looks at just like the heads of open AI
and all these companies as they're the
ones ushering in AI but what I'm hearing
here is you you have a lot of influence
on where things head to.
>> Yeah. Yeah, I think there's this really
powerful ecosystem where honestly people
just don't know where models are headed
and how they want to shape them yet and
how they want humanity to kind of play a
role in in the future of all this. And
so I think there's a lot of opportunity
to just continue shaping this
discussion.
>> Along that thread, I know you have a
very strong thesis on just why this work
matters to humanity and why this is so
important. talk about that.
>> I'll get a bit philosophical here, but I
think the question is always is a bit
philosophical. So, so bear with me. So,
the most straightforward way of thinking
about what we do is we train and
evaluate AI. But there's a deeper
mission that I often think about which
is helping our customers think about
their dream objective functions. Like,
yeah, what kind of model do they want
their model to be? And once we help them
do that, we'll help them train their
model to reach that northstar. We'll
help them measure that progress. But
it's really hard because objective
functions are really rich and complex.
It's kind of like the difference between
having a kid and asking them, "Okay,
what test do you want to pass? Do you
want them to get a high score or an SAT
and write a really good college essay?"
Like that's a simplistic version versus
what kind of person do you want them to
grow up to be? Will you be happy if
they're happy no matter what they do? Or
are you hoping they'll go to a good
school and be financially successful?
And again, if you take that notion, it's
like, okay, how do you define happiness?
How do how do you measure whether
they're happy? How do you measure
whether they're financially successful?
like it's a lot harder than simply
measuring whether or not you're getting
a high score in SAT. And what we're
doing is we want to help our customers
reach again their their dream stars and
figure out how to measure them.
And
so I I get I talked about this example
of what you want models to do when
you're asking them to write 50 different
email iterations. Do you just continue
them for 50 more or do you just say no
just just move on with the day because
this is perfect enough?
And
the broader question is are we building
these systems that actually advance
humanity? And so how do we build a data
the data sets to train towards that and
measure it? Are we optimizing for all
these wrong things just systems that
suck up more and more of our time and
make us lazier and lazier?
And yeah, I think it's really relevant
to what we do because it's very hard and
difficult to measure and define whether
something is generally advancing
humanity. It's very easy to measure all
these proxies instead like clicks and
likes. But I think that's why our work
is so interesting. We want to work the
hard important metrics that require the
hardest types of data and not not just
the easy ones. So I think one of the
things I often say is you you are your
objective function. So we want to reach
complex objective functions and not
these simplistic proxies. And our job is
to figure out how to get the data to
match this. So yeah, we want data. We
want metrics that measure whether AI is
making our life richer. We want to train
our systems this way. And we want tools
that make us more curious and more
creative, not just lazier. And it's hard
because yeah, humans are kind of
inherently lazy. So AI stop radios are
the easiest way to get engagement, make
all your metrics go up. So I think this
question about choosing the right
objective functions and making sure that
we're optimizing towards them and not
just these easy proxies is really,
really important to our future.
>> Wow. I love how what you're sharing here
gives you so much more appreciation of
the nuances of building AI, training AI,
the work that you're doing. You know,
from the outside, people could just look
at Zurge and companies in the space of,
okay, well, they're just creating all
this data feeding into AI, but clearly
there's so much to this that uh people
don't realize. And uh I love knowing
that you're at the head of this, that
someone like you is thinking through
this so deeply. Maybe one more question.
Is there something you wish you'd known
before you started Surge? A lot of
people start companies, they don't know
what they're getting into. Is there
something you wish you could tell your
earlier self?
>> Yeah. So, I definitely wish I known that
you could build a company by being heads
down and doing great research and simply
building something amazing and not by
constantly tweeting and hyping and
fundraising. It's kind of funny, but I
never thought I wanted to start a
company. Like, I love doing research and
I was actually always a huge fan of Deep
Mine because they were this amazing
research company that got bought and
still managed to keep on doing amazing
science. But I always thought that there
was they were this magical ILR unicorn.
So I thought if I started a company, I'd
have to become a business person looking
at financials all day and building being
in meetings all day and doing all this
stuff that sounded incredibly boring and
I always hated. So I think it's crazy
that didn't end up being true at all.
Like I'm still in the weeds in the data
every day. And I love it. Like I love
that I get to do all these analyses and
talk to researchers and it's basically
applied research where we're building
all these amazing data systems that
really push the frontier of AI. So yeah,
I wish I knew that you don't need to
spend all your time fundraising. You
don't need to constantly generate hype.
You don't need to become someone you're
not. You can actually build a successful
company by simply building something so
good that it cut through all that noise.
And I think if I known this was
possible, I would have started even
sooner. So I I hope she is such an
amazing uh place to end. I feel like
this is exactly what founders need to
hear. And I think this conversation is
going to inspire a lot of founders uh
and especially a lot of founders that
want to do things in a different way.
Before we get to our very exciting
lightning round, is there anything else
you wanted to share? Anything else you
want to leave our listeners with? We
covered a lot of ground. It's totally
okay to say no as well. I think the
thing I would end with is I think a lot
of people think of data labeling as
really simplistic work like labeling cat
photos and drawing bound marks around
cars. And so I've actually always hated
word data labeling because it just
paints this very simplistic picture when
I think what we're doing is completely
different.
Like I think a lot about what we're
doing as a lot more like raising a
child. You don't just feed a child
information. You're teaching them values
and creativity and what's beautiful and
these infinite subtle things about what
makes somebody a good person. And that's
what we're doing for AI. So I yeah I
just often think about what we're doing
as
almost like
the future of humanity or how how are we
raising humanity's children. Uh so I'll
leave it at that.
>> Wow. I love just how much philosophy
there is in this whole conversation that
I was not expecting. With that, Edwin,
we've reached our very exciting
lightning round. I've got five questions
for you. Are you ready?
>> Yep. Let's go. Here we go. What are two
or three books that you find yourself
recommending most to other people?
>> Yes. So, three books I often recommend
are first, Story of Your Life by Tai
Cheng. It's my all-time favorite short
story. And it's about a linguist
learning an alien language. And I
obviously reread it every couple years.
>> And that's what the Interstellar was
about. Is that is that
>> Yeah. So, there's a movie called
Arrival.
>> Arrival,
>> which is which was based off of the
story, which which I love as well.
>> Great. Okay, keep going.
>> And then second, myth of Sisphus by
Kimu. I actually can't really explain
why I love this, but I always find the
final chapter somehow really inspiring.
And then third, Letobo Dearo by Douglas
Hoffsider. And so I think Gerbach is his
for is his more famous book, but I've
actually always loved this one better.
It basically takes a single French poem
and translates it 89 different ways and
discusses all the motivations behind
each translation. And so I've always
loved the way embodies this idea that
translation isn't this robotic thing
that you do. Instead, there's a million
different ways to think about what makes
a high quality translation, which mimics
a lot of ways I think about data and
quality in LMS.
>> All these resonate so deeply with the
way with all the things we've been
talking about, especially that first
one, if that was your goal after school
is like, I want to help translate uh
alien language. Uh I'm not surprised you
love that short story. Next question. Do
you have a favorite recent movie or TV
show you've really enjoyed?
>> One of my new all-time favorite TV shows
is something I found recently. It's
called Travelers. It's basically about a
group of travelers from the future who
are sent back in time to prevent the
apocalypse. So, I just really like
science fiction. And then I actually
just rewatched Contact, which is all one
of my all-time favorite movies. So,
yeah. I think one of the things you'll
notice about me is that yeah, I love any
kind of book or film that involves
scientists suffering deciphering alien
communication.
>> Again, just this dream I always had as a
kid.
>> That's so funny. I love that. Okay. Is
there a product you recently discovered
that you really love?
So, it's funny, but I was in SF earlier
this week and I finally took a Whimo for
the first time. Honestly, it was it was
magical and it really felt like a living
future.
>> Yeah. It's like the thing that you can
people hype it like crazy, but it always
exceeds your expectations.
>> Deserves the hype. It was crazy.
>> Yeah. It's absurd. It's like holy moly.
Like if you're not an SF, you don't
realize just how common these things
are. They're just like all over the
place. Just driverless cars constantly
going about and when you like go to an
event at the end there's just like all
these Whimos lined up picking people up.
>> Yep.
>> Yeah. Whimo, good job. Good job over
there. Uh, do you have a favorite life
motto that you find yourself coming back
to in work or in life?
>> So, I think I mentioned this idea that
founders should build a company that
only they could build almost like it's
this destiny that their entire life and
experiences and interests shape them
towards. And so, I think that principle
applies pretty broadly, not just the
founders, but the people creating a
thing.
>> Well, let me follow that thread to
unlightening this answer. Uh, do you
have any advice for how to
build those sorts of experiences that
help lead to that? Is it, you know,
follow things that are interesting to
you? Cuz, you know, it's easy to say
that it's hard to actually acquire these
really unique sets of experiences that
allow you to create something really
important. Yeah. So, I think it would
always be to
really follow your interests and do what
you love.
And it's almost like a lot of decisions
I make about Surge, like I think one of
the things that I didn't think about a
couple years ago, but then someone said
it to me, it's that companies in a sense
are an embodiment of their CEO. And and
it's kind of funny. I hadn't thought
about that because I never quite knew
what a CEO did. I always thought a CEO
was kind of generic and it's like, okay,
you're just doing whatever your VPs and
your board and whatever tell you to do
and you're just saying yes to decisions.
But instead it's this idea where when I
think about certain big hard decisions
we have to make I don't think what would
company do I don't think what metrics
are we trying to optimize I just think
what do I personally care about like
what are my values and what do I want to
see happen in the world and so I think
following that idea about okay so ask
yourself what are what are the values
you care about what are things you're
trying to shape and not what will look
good on a dashboard I I think that
results were pretty important.
>> Uh I love how just you're just full of
endless beautiful and very deep answers.
Final question. Something that you were
quite you got quite famous for before
starting Surge is you built this uh map
at Twitter while you were at Twitter
that showed the uh a map of the world
and how and what people called whether
they called it soda or pop. I don't know
if it was called soda or pop. What was
the name of this map?
>> Yeah, it was like the soda versus pop
data set or soda versus pop map. And so
it's like a map of the United States and
it tells you where people say pop versus
soda. So uh do you say soda or pop?
>> So I say I say soda. I'm a soda person.
>> Okay. And is that just like that's the
right answer or it's like it whatever
you are it's totally fine.
>> I think I'll look at you a little bit
funny. You say pop and I'll wonder where
you came from. But I I won't I won't
scorn you too much.
>> That's how I feel too. Edwin, this was
incredible. This was such an awesome
conversation. I learned so which I think
we're going to help a lot of people
start their own companies, help their
companies become uh more aligned with
with their values and and just building
better things. Two final questions,
where can folks find you online if they
want to reach out? Uh what roles are you
hiring for? How can listeners be useful
to you? Yes, so I used to love writing a
blog, but I haven't had time in the past
few years, but I am starting to write
again. So definitely check out a Serge
blog, surgehq.ai/blog.
And yeah, hopefully I'll be writing a
lot more there.
And I would say we're definitely always
hiring. So for people who just love data
and people who love this intersection of
math and language and computer of
computer science, definitely reach out.
Reach out anytime.
>> Awesome. And how can listeners be useful
to you? Is it just I don't know. Yeah.
Is there anything there? Any asks?
>> So I would say definitely tell me blog
topics you like me to write about.
>> Okay.
>> And then I'm always fascinated by all of
these
AI failures that happen in the real
world. So whenever you come across a
really interesting failure that I think
illustrates some deep question about how
we want models to behave, like there's
just so many
different ways a model can respond
there. I just often times think there
just not a single right answer. And so
whenever there's one of these these
these examples, I I just love seeing
them.
>> You need to share these on your blog.
I'm also I would love to see these.
Edwin, thank you so much for being here.
>> Thank you.
>> Bye everyone.
>> Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.